Testing, mic one, mic one, mic one. Testing,
testing, mic one. Testing, mic two, mic two, mic
two. Testing, testing.
Do a little bit of one, two, three, four, five, six.
This is Tuesday, Tuesday testing. okay I hope you
can hear me if I talk about this same level this is
this is Tuesday February 7 I believe it is and we're
in the Clayton Williams building and I have the
honor and pleasure of chatting with buck
henderson about his a m years but to begin with
describe your life before you enrolled here
family where what did they do for a living where'd
you grow up where'd you go to high school give us a
biography before you got here as a fish yes sir uh
started i was born in 1940 and Jacksboro, Texas,
which is located between Fort Worth and Wichita
Falls. I guess you'd call it a small, ranching, oil
field community. And like most of the kids that I
graduated with in 1958, we went from the first
grade through high school together and grew up
from that standpoint of you had to be very careful
what you did and how you treated people because you
had to live with that all your life. And I guess my
emphasis was I was in the Scouts until I was 18 years
old. I think the main reason I stayed in the Scouts
was because we ushered all the TCU football games.
So for seven years, I never missed a Saturday when
there was a home game at TCU. We were 60 miles away.
My emphasis in high school, I guess, was sports. I
played football, basketball, golf, and tennis,
and wasn't any good in any of them, but in a small
town you got to play. My weakness was academics. My
mother died when I was very young. I was raised by my
grandmother. My father was a rancher, and so I was
pretty well Raised as I say by my grandmother and my
aunt who stayed after my mother died the eighth
grade until I graduated and so I was a young man who
probably got out of the door of high school because
My two toughest subjects my teacher had also
taught or my teachers had taught my father so I That
kind of sums it up. How many in the senior class? In
senior class, we had 60, of which Texas A&M was an
all-boys class, I mean an all-boys school. I think
we had 31 boys, and we had six of those 30 that
started A&M. Five of us graduated, which was
unbelievable. The one that didn't graduate left
the first week and went to Texas Tech and graduated
from there. So again,
when I came to A&M that year, they had made the Corps
compulsory. And so of those five that stayed, two
had handicap-type
problems, which they didn't have to be in the
Corps. Why did you come to A&M? Why here instead of
some other place? I think there were two reasons.
One of the reasons was I mentioned the football
game at a TCU football game. I believe it was
probably 1952, 53. A&M was playing TCU that day,
and A&M may have only won three games that year. But
a quarterback by the name of Don Ellis ran wild. He
was All-Southwest Conference quarterback, I
remember, or I'm pretty sure he was, but he put on a
one-man show, and they upset TCU. I took my little
autograph book, which I had, and took it down to the
dressing room, and one of the trainers took me in,
and I got to meet the quarterback, and he put, best
wishes, Don Ellis to Quincy, Louisiana, and I've
been fortunate enough in recent years to get to
know Colonel Ellis, and I think that had probably
the start of my looking towards A&M. The second
reason was the guy that pretty well was my
godfather was Henry Richards, class of 41, and I
caddied for him for about six years, and he used to
bring four of us down here for the football game,
actually bring five, sometimes because he had six
tickets, and he'd bring us to the games. We'd get
home late on those Saturday nights after the game,
but he kept never pushing, but he was a role model in
our little community. So you came a number of times
to the campus. I came probably to When I was in high
school, I probably came down here for I'd say six
football games. The first one that I came to was
that famous TCU rain game where A&M won seven to six
when Swink was playing for TCU and Crow and Lloyd
Taylor kicked that extra point in the 100-hour
windstorm, all of that. The tornado hit outside
Bryan that day. Now, I'm assuming that you are not
from a family of old education, like I'm not
either. No. What caused you to think that you had a
chance to go to college? Well, I think I grew up and
just assumed that I would always go. Both of my two
older sisters went, and neither one of them
finished. They went to TCU, and after a couple of
years, one transferred to North Texas, but they
never completed their degrees. They went on to
work. I just, because of, I think, Mr. Richards,
Henry Richards, who I'm still very close with, who
has also been a very good supporter of the A&M golf
team, I think I came here and just figured, well,
Jacksonboro was probably a pretty well-to-do
town per capita because of all of the oil and
everything, and I just... I always knew I was going
to come, but in the back of my mind, I was always
worried that could I make it because, as I said, I
really got out the door of high school barely. What
had impressed you about A&M before you came to them
all? I think one of the things, as I mentioned, I'd
been in the Boy Scouts for all those years, and I
think you look in the Scouts, something about
discipline, and you look at possibility for
leadership because you work your way up. and then
also helping other people. And then you go back and
you looked at A&M. I think if I'd been from a big city
and had come down here, I don't know if I would have
looked favorably on it. I looked at this as just
kind of a neat experience because the bottom line,
Everybody was basically the same in your class,
you know.
There wasn't a fish camp then, was there? There was
not a fish camp, but it kind of makes it sound like I
wasn't a very good student the way I've led into
this so far. But I will be very honest, my senior
year I saw that I had to have chemistry and I had to
have plain geometry to get into Texas A&M. And I
made a 70 in chemistry, and you can guess what I made
in plain geometry, a 70. So I knew that I had a very
weak background in the training for academics. So
the bottom line was I had the opportunity to go to
Junction that summer, which was for students that
wanted to go to work on some of their academic
skills. And so I chose to go, and I did go one
semester at Junction. And I think that definitely
helped me because They did emphasize study hall,
and they had help sessions, and then I came. Of
course, I'll go a step further and say when I got
here, they also had something called the basic
division, which I took advantage of, and again, I
think I knew, and maybe the good thing, I knew that I
had some weaknesses. describe the junction annex
and as far as you know about how long had it been
going i'm i'm really not sure i think it'd been
going in maybe a different type of environment
prior to becoming a a I guess you'd say an academic
enhancement program for incoming freshmen. You
went out there. It was tough. You took normally
seven hours of PE and two other classes. And I
remember that we lived in tents. And to me, it was
just like scout camp all over again. And you did it
alphabetically. And some of those guys that I got
to know there are still ones that you are involved
with today. Such as? Such as, I'll take Bo Martin is
a very good friend of mine now in Dallas.
I think probably the thing that I learned right
there, well, I'll give you an example. There is a
gentleman here that
I still, you might want to stop in just one second, I
see. I'll think of Eddie's name in a second, and
then you'll really see how bad I am. But he's moved
back to Bryan the other day, and the first thing he
did, he came up to me and he said, now I get a chance to
beat you. And so I asked him, what do you mean? He
said, well, you won the intramural ping pong out
there, and I was runner up, and you beat me three to
two. And I said, well, I don't remember any of that.
But I think, again, it's just one of those moments
areas where you get to meet a lot of people. I bought
a car from Gerald Headings a few years ago that
lives up about 30 miles out of Dallas. And we shared
bunks with each other. And so you could probably
name 15 different guys that you've had. Were there
some teachers you recall positively from that
time? Mr. Perry, I remember, was very, very
outstanding that I had him in math. I just thought
that was excellent. What was the other course you
had? I had English. Both of them, I believe, were
Dr. Perry and Dr. Kane. And PE was just a general
one-hour conditioning class. it was uh very tough
and i think probably it was very good for me for one
reason uh it was structured and uh you know you can
go back and read the junction boys and you you see
how structured it was well it was pretty
structured on us out there too and we had lights out
and uh there's certain things that we were able to
do describe the typical a day the typical day was
we'd get up in the in the morning seemed like we had
to whistle jock same as we had in the core and this
was all good training for the core And then we'd
have to be up, we'd go to breakfast, and we were
expected to keep our tents clean. We didn't have
inspections and things like that. And probably
one of the things I remember most, you'd go to
breakfast, and then you had three classes during
the day. And a lot of emphasis was put on academics,
so it did mean that the studying that night, the
tents, you had to keep the noise level down. And
quite interesting because it was pretty warm down
there on a summer night. But it was a good
adjustment for coming into, which was a very big
shock for me, entering the Corps of Cadets and
being a fish because I was not prepared for that at
all. And you see that, as you look back on it, as a
positive preparation for you? Oh, definitely.
Definitely. Because I think, number one, a lot of
people had never had to, maybe they didn't have a
brother, maybe they came from families that had
money also. In other words, they'd never had tight
living conditions as such. Sure, you go to church
camp or you'd go to, as I mentioned earlier, scout
camp, but it was usually never where you would have
maybe 16 guys in one tent. So it was a peer pressure
because you always had, I came from being very,
very reserved, and we had some pretty what I
considered Hollywood loudmouths there. What did
you and the other junction, did you all have a name
for the group? Were you junction kids or junction?
I don't know, I just always remember just the
junction adjunct, it was called the adjunct
there, but I don't remember us having him. Some
people would laugh about it and say, hey, we're the
dumb kids, you know, that are trying to improve,
but we'd all already been admitted to Texas A&M,
and there was no requirement to come. And some of
the, of course, some of the people that came were in
the tops of their high school class and definitely
went on to bigger and better things. What did you
all do for fun? Well, I think... know you get down
there down the little river there and you go
swimming we uh it seemed like most of the time that i
remember most of it was geared towards just
surviving in school because i think probably the
thing that helped me was they they made a very very
very big push on keeping you busy very very busy you
had lots of homework no matter which of the classes
you were taking you had papers like english it
seemed like you never got One paper finished that
there wasn't another one that was due. And I
remember going Saturday night so we could go in. I
would go to church on Sunday in Junction. Seemed
like Junction may have been, I don't know, three
miles away. I don't remember how far it was. I
remember we walked one time, but I remember going
one night to the rodeo and And I was a Western music,
country music fan, and that's the first time I'd
ever seen Jimmy Heap in the Melody Masters. So I
remember that. And I had grown up around rodeos, so
you would, those dances out there on the old tennis
court or whatever. But for some reason, I
definitely remember that night. But there was no
real wild partying on Saturday night. I think I
came out from maybe a little different
environment from a lot of kids. I came from a
pretty... pretty conservative life, even though
I hung around rodeos, and sure I would, the typical
kid that would go out and drink, but I was not what
you'd, as far as drinking beer, but I was not a
partier, you know, from that standpoint, you
know. Now, I've heard lots of the stories of the
guys that would go out, and I was shy, S-H-Y with a
capital, S-H-Y. All right, so you went six weeks,
then went home. Went home. I could have stayed for
the 12, but I figured, you know, I was ready to get.
And I worked five summers in the oil field, and I
came back and worked those second six weeks. Then
when you came to the campus to enroll, how did you
get here? I got a ride with one of those six of us from
Jacksboro, a gentleman named Bill Sparks. I
remember it. very well. I had one footlocker. I got
off over there in front of Dorm 2. That's Briggs
Hall. And the guardroom, the Corps Staff
guardroom was there. Put my footlocker down
there. And all of a sudden, a guy named Bill Reagan
was the first sergeant, this guy that looked very
sharp and had khakis on starch. And he said,
anybody here in A Veterinary Company? And And I was
going to be in a veterinary company, so I got there
just in time to leave my footlocker there. And I
joined in, and we marched over to Sully. And as he
said, we were the first unit in 58 to polish Sully.
And I remember that very well, because I had a
yellow. polo golf shirt and a pair of black slacks,
and I ruined both of them. But we were the first unit
to polish Sully that day. Now, how did you get
assigned to that unit? There was a guy, class of 58,
that brought us down the year before. He was here,
and we came down, and he was rooming with a guy named
Jerry Gleason, and they had just formed the
veterinary company. I might say that... The first
year I was here at Texas A&M 58 to 59 was the last year
that they had branch training in the ROTC as far as
the Army. They did have Air Force and Army ROTC, but
if you wanted to go into transportation,
artillery, quartermaster, air defense,
whatever, infantry, you basically went into
those companies and you signed up for that. Well, I
thought I wanted to be a veterinarian, and so I
ended up in a veterinary company. And y'all were
what? Dormitory two, fourth floor. And describe
how you got it. How were you assigned a room? I was
assigned a room, which was just like the rooms they
have now, except we didn't have air conditioning.
Air conditioning is And I'm sure this has been told
1,000 times, but you would hope that the guy across
the hall, the room would open their window, and
you'd open your window, and maybe you'd get a
little breeze. But I was assigned room 423. I
remember that room well. I came back to teach ROTC
here, and I remember going up to that room, dorm
two, and two sophomores were in the room and went in
there. And they were doing a biology project, and
they had a fish in the sink. And I just thought that
was very appropriate. That's Fish Henderson's
room. I got ready to leave, and they said, sir, are
you going to come back? And I said, well, I might
drop in someday. Why? And he said, they said, well,
if you are, we're going to change rooms with the
freshmen. So I thought that was kind of humorous.
But I was assigned a roommate. I had four roommates
the first semester. Three of them left school
before the semester was over. I ended up rooming
the rest of my time with another freshman from Big
Springs who did not have a penny, worked as a
waiter. And later on, he ended up getting his PhD
and teaching at a junior college. So I think that
set the example of what A&M could do for people that
were really, we wore the same clothes, ate the same
food. But second semester, we roomed together the
whole semester. Why did those others leave? I
think the first one left the third week we were
here, and I think he came from a completely
different background than I did. He came down here
in a new car and had been a partier, was from down
near Baytown. And he just didn't like the
structure we had of being a freshman. And you could
call it harassment. Some people referred to it as
hazing. Maybe another term could be good
training. Another one just was definitely
homesick. And I had gone to Philmont Scout Ranch
with him. His father had been an assistant
scoutmaster out of the Dallas area. And we had
gotten a bus together from our council.
interesting that he would come then end up being my
roommate and he left and the third one he just after
thanksgiving he was flunking everything and he
was ready to go home i will tell you that i came down
here and if i remember right i weighed i weighed 185
pounds i thought i was six foot thought i was in
pretty good shape and as i say i'd worked in the last
six weeks in the oil field and I ended up at
Thanksgiving I was flunking two courses and I
weighed about 159 so I had quite a few views of going
home also but but I had at least having gone to
Junction I had made some extra grades and so What
advice did your grandmother or anybody else in the
family, what advice did anybody give you as you
left home? I don't think I got any advice. I just
came and since then, my father remarried when I was
a senior in high school, and my stepmother has
said, three or four times since that. And she came
from a family that stressed education, and she had
been a teacher. But she's always said that when I
came home, I admitted to her that I was scared to
death, and I didn't think I would make it. And since
then, I've been fortunate enough to continue to go
to school and many military schools. And I think
I've done very well academically, but
maybe I needed that hurdle to get over. Do you
remember what that first year cost? What kind of
financing? No, I don't really remember. I should,
but... Did you pay part of it? I paid part of it, but
my father pretty well covered it. It wasn't very
expensive, though. I think one of the things that
made it very reasonable back then was you could
come here, our uniforms were furnished, all the
clothes were furnished. I don't ever remember
having a sports coat hanging in the closet until my
senior year. Or feeling that you needed to. Didn't
need it, no. I did, I will say, answer one of your
questions. I came from, again, what I consider a
small town where there's always lots of pressure.
I did have 12 years perfect attendance in Sunday
school when I started down here my freshman year.
And I continued that until the Rice Corps trip in
Houston, and it was the first time that I'd missed
Sunday school. But I think my upbringing
was such that right and wrong and respect for
others, I hope. And your academic schedule, how
did you, that first semester, did you... I looked
in the catalog and it had a pre-vet curriculum with
about 18 hours and You know, all I can say is it was a
tough, tough go chemistry. Remember I mentioned
earlier, that's one of them I made 70 in. Well, I
wasn't for very... But the problem I had, the real
problem that I had, and I have taught classes,
freshmen, how to study and how to succeed in
college, my biggest problem was two things.
Number one, I think, is what... is preached to you
today and it's still true is is I didn't know how to
study didn't have any idea how to study I would sit
in class and daydream you know or something and the
second is I had no concept of managing my time even
though maybe what I did learn in the scouts helped
me more than I thought but but I was very very ill
prepared because I fit into the core the mold of the
core where all of a sudden whatever that sophomore
wanted me to do or whatever became more important
than the school work. As you look back, are there
some teachers from that first year or so that were
important or advisors? I think the basic
division, Mr. Curley was a shining example of
help, and I had him later in graduate school as a
professor. I think Most of my help from
professors, though, really started my junior
year. Because the first two years, it seemed like I
was more just in the core style life here. And I
didn't really turn for help. I just played the
game. I think, as somebody asked me one time, what
did I major in? And our mutual friend, we were
sitting at the Shamrock when I came in in 67 for the
Rice game. And in fact, Bones Irwin asked me, said,
at that time, I think I was a captain. He said,
Captain Henderson, what did you major in? And your
friend McCandless said, freshman chemistry,
which was a little bit of truth. Because the first
two years, I didn't know. All right, but that first
semester, did you pass everything? No.
Chemistry, went down in chemistry, and that was a
four-hour course. And so I... Who taught, do you
remember who taught it then? Alexander. Did he
have a nickname? I'm not sure that he had a
nickname, but most of the other professors did.
I had Alexander more than once. In fact, Sally and I
stopped in an antique store the other day, and the
lady there got to talking about her
brother-in-law. I was from A&M, and did I know a Dr.
Alexander? I said, yes, I did. You're doing quite
well. That's where I stopped the conversation.
Nice guy. But we were also in chemistry, which was a
shock. That was the big class that I was in where,
you know, my goodness, you had so many. And then lab
was very demanding, and I'm going to quit talking
about how I wasn't prepared because... As I say, it
took me a little while, and then I think I finally
got over that.
Your first days as a fish, describe the dormitory
life, the routine, if there was hazing or whatever
it might be called. Well, I was in a good unit, a
veterinary company. I was fortunate enough to be
the guy later on to be responsible, basically, I
guess, for overseeing the building and then
running of the Core Center. And one of the first
things I did when we put the guidons around, and you
see them now inside the Core Center, is right
outside my door is hanging a veterinary guidon,
which is a replica of it. But it was a good unit, a lot
of good memories. Most of the guys there. had no
intentions of being in the Corps. In 1958, they
made the Corps compulsory again, so Ben's the only
vet school for three states at that time, if I
remember right. We had a lot of guys from as far away
as Parrington, all over, having to take a pre-vet,
which was a three-year program. They had no
intentions of being in the Corps of Cadets. But
they got down here and found out if they were going
to be at A&M, they had to be in the Corps of Cadets. So
that year, it was kind of interesting. We had
probably 20 sophomores and probably started off
with 70-something freshmen. So we were different
than all of the other units. In fact, the next year,
they came up with two units, two vet units, because
you had more students than you could actually
manage from the leadership role and accomplish
anything, I think. So I was in a good unit from the
standpoint of
not having, let's say, two sophomores that were on
my back. Sure, I had sophomores that were on my back
or whatever. It wasn't just, they also had about
six other freshmen that each sophomore was
involved with. You didn't mention any juniors or
seniors. Sat on a table with Ted Harwood. who's a
veterinarian now in San Antonio. And he was a
pretty strict guy, but I can remember him very
well. In fact, I was very fortunate. This past
year, I got to speak at the reunion for the class of
60. And I'm really looking forward to next year
talking to the class of 61, who was the class that
was sophomores when I was a freshman. But we had
most of the people that were in their sophomore
year in a veterinary company We're trying to get
into vet school, so grades were emphasized. I had
lots of fish buddies that told so many war stories.
We thought we had it very tough. As I said, I lost a
lot of weight. I think a lot of that was coming from
worrying a lot. But I got along with, I think,
upperclassmen from the standpoint I was very
active in intramurals. I played a number of sports
and back then intramurals was very, very
important and which was probably the turning
point in my career at A&M because I ended up being a
sophomore intramural manager and a junior and
then there was four senior intramural managers
for the entire campus and I was one of those and so
that was probably what my real interest was and
still even though I graduated, I never really put
much emphasis on academics. Did you all have less,
in effect, less of the core traditions that first
year or so. Oh, yes. I'd hate to admit it to anybody
that was in my outfit, but we didn't catch as much,
pardon the expression, the old Army hell. Oh,
sure, I stayed up all night polishing floors or
things like that. But I can truthfully say that
nobody ever took a board to me. I'm going out to eat
this Friday night with probably my best friend now
out of my class. He was put down, he was in the
medical company, which was on the third floor, but
he was put down next to an Italian staff and was a
freshman for two juniors, which I better not
mention their name because you'd know both of them
here around A&M now still. But he had...